docs/ecs-r3/framework/entities.md, before:

# Entities

Entities are basically things that exist in your world with components on them, just like lots of little databases. Each entity has a unique ID and a list of components, these can be added and removed whenever you want, and this will cause the entities to fit into different groups.

## Creating entities

So entities are created via entity collections so you don't need to do much here other than get the collection you wish to create your entity in and call the `Create` method which will return you a method to play with.

## Accessing entities

As mentioned entities are created within collections and you can have many entity collections if you want to segregate entities for whatever reason, and in most cases the systems will get the applicable entities for you, but if you are wanting to find out more about how it all works or wanting to go and get entities yourself for whatever reason you have the following options:

### From `IEntityCollectionManager`

- `myCollectionManager.GetObservableGroup(myGroup, idsForCollectionsToCheck)`

This is probably the most common approach, you get your `IEntityCollectionManager` instance (usually injected in to your class) and you call `CreateObservableGroup`, this will create or return an existing observable group for you which internally contains the `Entities` that match the group for you to query on further. This is often a better approach than accessing entities directly. (read more on this in querying/filtration docs)

- `myCollectionManager.EntityDatabase.*`

The entity collection manager exposes the entity database which can be queried for more info 

### From `IEntityDatabase`

- `entityDatabase.GetEntitiesFor(myGroup, idsForCollectionsToCheck)`

This is not used often but is there for convenience, it allows you to just get back an `IEnumerable<IEntity>` collection which contains all entities which match the group, so it you can query on the matching entities further however you want.

### From `IEntityCollection`

The `IEntityCollection` interface actually implements `IEnumerable` so you can just treat the collection like an enumerable object and foreach/linq query it as you would any other collection object.

## Destroying entities

To destroy an entity, remove it from the IEntityCollection it belongs to.

- `entityCollection.RemoveEntity(entity.Id);`

## Recommendations

It is recommended in most cases to let the systems handle the accessing of entities as the systems have processes in place to manage all this, also `IObservableGroups` are re-used wherever possible meaning less evaluations of data when re-used across systems.

If however you have a reason to need to go and access entities directly outside of systems, or manually within things like `IManualSystem` types, you have an avenue to go down.

Commit message:

Chore/update docs (#16)
* Updated core readme

* Updated more docs

* Updated more readmes for systemsr3

* Added new high level diagram also updated more docs

* Streamlined docs on systems and performance

docs/ecs-r3/framework/entities.md, after:

# Entities

Conceptually entities have `Components` added/removed from them, so you can think of them as little databases with each `Component` being a table inside of it.

Under the hood though it's a lot simpler, they are basically `Id` handles into component data, which is stored somewhere else in huge contiguous memory arrays for each component type, but we still have an `Entity` struct that wraps and represents this notion for usage throughout the framework.

> Historically entities used to be reference types and would internally store their component allocation data etc, but it led to fragmented allocation data as well as made it problematic to do batch actions on many entities at once.
> 
> To solve this problem EcsR3 changed EcsRx's `IEntity` from a class implementation to be a simple `Entity` struct that can be passed around easily and defer operations on the `Entity` to another class.

## Creating/Accessing entities

Entities are created via the `Entity Collection` so you don't need to do much here other than get the collection and call the `Create` method which will return you an `Entity` to play with.

> You are often given the required `Entity` instances within `System` execution/processing methods so you don't need to track entities yourself, your job is to ensure entities have the right components on them to fit into the `Groups` that you need them to be in for `Systems` to pick up.

## Adding/Removing components on entities

Once you have your `Entity` you can start adding/removing `Components` to/from it via the `Entity Component Accessor` (injectable as `IEntityComponentAccessor` anywhere you need it).

For the most part you will find `ISystem` implementations, `EcsR3Applications` and most other classes where you are expected to interact with `Entities` will provide you an instance of `IEntityComponentAccessor` either by local argument passing or a local property on the instance you can access.

Most interactions would look like so:

```csharp
entityComponentAccessor.CreateComponent<MyComponent>(myEntity);
var component = entityComponentAccessor.GetComponent<MyComponent>(myEntity);
entityComponentAccessor.RemoveComponent<MyComponent>(myEntity);
```

> You can also do batch operations by providing multiple `Components` or `Entities` as arguments, although most of these are extension methods.
